.\"  Copyright (c) 2021 Mark J. Olesen
.\"
.\"  CC BY 4.0
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 
.\"  International license.
.\"
.\"  You are free to:
.\"
.\"    Share --- copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
.\" 
.\"    Adapt --- remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose,
.\"              even commercially
.\"
.\"  Under the following terms:
.\"
.\"    Attribution --- You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
.\"                    to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You
.\"                    may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way
.\"                    that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
.\"
.\"   Full text of this license can be found in 
.\"   '${MJO_EXTRA}/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0'or visit 
.\"   'http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/' or send a letter 
.\"   to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
.\"
.\"  This file is part of mjoextra library
.\"
.Dd November 25, 2021
.Os
.Dt marg
.Sh NAME
.Nm mjo_arg_free ,
.Nm mjo_arg_malloc
.Nd allocate or release a mjo_arg_t memory resource
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In marg.h
.Ft void
.Fo mjo_arg_free
.Fa "mjo_arg_t *const io_obj"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo mjo_arg_malloc
.Fa "mjo_arg_t *const o_obj"
.Fa "enum mjo_arg_rule_mask const i_mask"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn mjo_arg_free 
release a 
.Vt mjo_arg_t
memory resource.
.Pp
.Fn mjo_arg_malloc 
allocate a 
.Vt mjo_arg_t
memory resource.
.Pp
Following is a description of the arguments.
.Bl -tag  -width 5
.It Fa o_obj 
pointer to 
.So mjo_arg_t * Sc
that shall be set to the address of a newly created memory resource
.It Fa io_obj 
pointer to a
.So mjo_arg_t * Sc
that shall be an address of a previously allocated memory resource
.It Fa i_mask
rules that control the behavior of the parser
.El
.Pp
.Bl -tag  -width 5
.It Release Resource
If both
.Fa io_obj
and
.Fa *io_obj 
is not nil,
any internal resources held by the object will be released.
Following,
.Xr mjo_free 3 
shall be invoked on
.Fa io_obj .
.It Allocate Resource
.Xr mjo_malloc 3
shall be invoked to create a 
.Vt mjo_arg_t
object followed by allocation of any internal resources.
.El
.Pp
If
.Fa io_obj
is nil, it shall be denoted as an invalid argument.
.Pp
If
.Fa i_block
is nil,
.Fa *io_obj
shall be set to nil and it shall be denoted as an invalid argument.
.Pp
.Vt enum mjo_arg_rule_mask
.Bl -column "Constant" "Description" -offset indent
.It mjo_arg_rule_mask_on_error_keep_going Ta on error keep processing
.It mjo_arg_rule_mask_on_error_suppress_message Ta do not print error diagnostics
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If any of the arguments are invalid, errno shall be set to
.Er EINVAL .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mjo_malloc  3
.Xr mjo_free 3
