.\"  Copyright (c) 2021 Mark J. Olesen
.\"
.\"  CC BY 4.0
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 
.\"  International license.
.\"
.\"  You are free to:
.\"
.\"    Share --- copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
.\" 
.\"    Adapt --- remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose,
.\"              even commercially
.\"
.\"  Under the following terms:
.\"
.\"    Attribution --- You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
.\"                    to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You
.\"                    may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way
.\"                    that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
.\"
.\"   Full text of this license can be found in 
.\"   '${MJO_EXTRA}/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0'or visit 
.\"   'http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/' or send a letter 
.\"   to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
.\"
.\"  This file is part of mjoextra library
.\"
.Dd November 25, 2021
.Os
.Dt marg
.Sh NAME
.Nm mjo_arg_value
.Nd get an option's arguments
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In marg.h
.Ft const mjo_vector_t
.Fo mjo_arg_value
.Fa "size_t *const o_slots"
.Fa "const mjo_arg_t i_arg"
.Fa "unsigned char const *i_attribute"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Lookup an option's arguments.
.Pp
Following is a description of the arguments.
.Bl -tag -width 5
.It Fa o_slots
pointer to
.So size_t Sc
that shall be set to the number of elements in the returned vector
.It Fa i_arg
pointer to a 
.So mjo_arg_t Sc
where the option will be searched for
.It Fa i_attribute
option to lookup
.El
.Pp
If
.Fa o_slots
is nil, it shall not be set.
.Pp
If 
.Fa i_arg
is nil or
.Fa i_attribute
is nil or empty,
.Fa *o_slots
shall be set to 0 and the routine shall return 0.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
A pointer to a vector containing the arguments of
.Fa i_attribute
or nil if the attribute was not found.
.Sh NOTES
.Fa o_slots
is for convienance. It shall be the same value returned by
a call to 
.Fn mjo_vector_count .
