.\"  Copyright (c) 2021 Mark J. Olesen
.\"
.\"  CC BY 4.0
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 
.\"  International license.
.\"
.\"  You are free to:
.\"
.\"    Share --- copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
.\" 
.\"    Adapt --- remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose,
.\"              even commercially
.\"
.\"  Under the following terms:
.\"
.\"    Attribution --- You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
.\"                    to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You
.\"                    may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way
.\"                    that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
.\"
.\"   Full text of this license can be found in 
.\"   '${MJO_EXTRA}/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0'or visit 
.\"   'http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/' or send a letter 
.\"   to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
.\"
.\"  This file is part of mjoextra library
.\"
.Dd November 25, 2021
.Os
.Dt mistream
.Sh NAME
.Nm mjo_istream_read
.Nd read an UTF-8 character from an input stream 
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In mistream.h
.Ft int
.Fo mjo_istream_read
.Fa "enum mjo_status *const o_status"
.Fa "struct mjo_utf8 *const o_peek"
.Fa "mjo_istream_t const io_stream"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Read an UTF-8 character from an input stream.
.Pp
Following is a description of the arguments.
.Bl -tag -width 5
.It Fa o_status
pointer to an
.So enum mjo_status Sc
that shall be set to one of the following four (4) indicators:
.Po 1 Pc
.Er mjo_status_ok ,
.Po 2 Pc
.Er mjo_status_invalid ,
.Po 3 Pc
.Er mjo_status_eof ,
or
.Po 4 Pc
.Er mjo_status_truncated
.Pp
.It Fa o_peek
pointer to a 
.So struct mjo_utf8 Sc
that shall be set to the UTF-8 character read
.It Fa io_stream
pointer to  a
.So mjo_istream_t Sc
that shall be read from
.El
.Pp
If 
.Fa o_status
is nil, it shall not be set.
.Pp
If 
.Fa o_peek
or
.Fa io_stream
is nil, it shall be denoted as an invalid argument.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If any of the arguments are invalid, the return code shall be
.Er MJO_FAIL
and 
.Va errno 
shall be set to
.Er EINVAL 
and 
.Fa *o_status
shall be set to
.Vt mjo_status_invalid .
.Pp
Upon success, the return code shall be
.Er MJO_OK .
However, the caller must check 
.Fa *o_status
for the condition of 
.Fa o_peek.
