.\"  Copyright (c) 2021 Mark J. Olesen
.\"
.\"  CC BY 4.0
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 
.\"  International license.
.\"
.\"  You are free to:
.\"
.\"    Share --- copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
.\" 
.\"    Adapt --- remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose,
.\"              even commercially
.\"
.\"  Under the following terms:
.\"
.\"    Attribution --- You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
.\"                    to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You
.\"                    may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way
.\"                    that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
.\"
.\"   Full text of this license can be found in 
.\"   '${MJO_EXTRA}/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0'or visit 
.\"   'http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/' or send a letter 
.\"   to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
.\"
.\"  This file is part of mjoextra library
.\"
.Dd November 25, 2021
.Os
.Dt marg
.Sh NAME
.Nm mjo_arg_print
.Nd print a formatted list of options
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In marg.h
.Ft void
.Fo mjo_arg_print
.Fa "FILE *const io_write"
.Fa "const mjo_arg_t i_arg"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Prints all of the options in a user friendly format. Typically,
this is invoked when a user specifies the help option on the command
line.
.Pp
Following is a description of the arguments.
.Bl -tag -width 5
.It Fa io_write
stream to write too
.It Fa io_arg
pointer to a
.So mjo_arg_t Sc
of the options that shall be printed
.El
.Pp
If 
.Fa io_write
is nil, output is sent to
.Va stdout .
.Pp
If 
.Fa i_arg
is nil or the container is empty, the following message will be printed
.Bd -literal -offset indent
This application does not have any options
.Ed
.Sh NOTES
If a programming error is encountered, diagnostics shall be ouput to 
.Va stderr
.Pp
A programming error may occur if an internal attribute is not recoginized.
Internal attributes start with a period such as
.Dv mjo_arg_option_internal_operand_str .
