.\"  Copyright (c) 2021 Mark J. Olesen
.\"
.\"  CC BY 4.0
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 
.\"  International license.
.\"
.\"  You are free to:
.\"
.\"    Share --- copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
.\" 
.\"    Adapt --- remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose,
.\"              even commercially
.\"
.\"  Under the following terms:
.\"
.\"    Attribution --- You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
.\"                    to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You
.\"                    may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way
.\"                    that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
.\"
.\"   Full text of this license can be found in 
.\"   '${MJO_EXTRA}/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0'or visit 
.\"   'http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/' or send a letter 
.\"   to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
.\"
.\"  This file is part of mjoextra library
.\"
.Dd November 25, 2021
.Os
.Dt mistream
.Sh NAME
.Nm mjo_istream_push
.Nd push back an UTF-8 character onto an input stream 
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In mistream.h
.Ft void
.Fo mjo_istream_push
.Fa "mjo_istream_t const io_stream"
.Fa "struct mjo_utf8 const *const i_peek"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn mjo_istream_push
is like 
.Xr ungetc 3
in functionality.  It provides a method to allow the caller to
push back an UTF-8 character to the input stream
.Fa io_stream .
When the next read is performed, if any UTF-8 
characters exists in the push back queue 
.Po LIFO Pc ,
the last one will be popped and returned.
.Pp
Following is a description of the arguments.
.Bl -tag -width 5
.It Fa io_stream
pointer to a
.So mjo_istream_t Sc
that shall place the character onto it's queue
.It Fa i_peek
UTF-8 character to push back
.El
.Pp
If
.Fa o_stream
or
.Fa i_peek
is nil, no operations will be performed.
