.\"  Copyright (c) 2020 Mark J. Olesen
.\"
.\"  CC BY 4.0
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 
.\"  International license.
.\"
.\"  You are free to:
.\"
.\"    Share --- copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
.\" 
.\"    Adapt --- remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose,
.\"              even commercially
.\"
.\"  Under the following terms:
.\"
.\"    Attribution --- You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
.\"                    to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You
.\"                    may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way
.\"                    that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
.\"
.\"   Full text of this license can be found in 
.\"   '${MJO_HOME}/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0'or visit 
.\"   'http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/' or send a letter 
.\"   to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
.\"
.\"  This file is part of mjo library
.\"
.Dd July 22, 2020
.Os
.Dt mr7
.Sh NAME
.Nm mjo_r7_hash
.Nd hash a block of memory
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In mr7.h
.Ft int
.Fo mjo_r7_hash
.Fa "size_t * const o_hash"
.Fa "void * const i_block"
.Fa "size_t const i_octets"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn mjo_r7_hash
shall iterate through a block of memory 
.Po Fa i_block Pc
mixing bits to create a hash value.
.Pp
Following is a description of the arguments.
.Bl -tag -width 5
.It Fa o_hash
pointer to a
.So size_t Sc 
that shall be set to the hash value
.It Fa i_block
pointer to a fixed length block 
.Po in octets Pc 
of memory
.It Fa i_octets
length
.Po in octets Pc 
of the block of memory
.El
.Pp
If 
.Fa o_hash
is nil, a hash value will not be constructed. Otherwise,
.Fa *o_hash 
shall be set to the result.
.Pp
If
.Fa i_block
is nil or
.Fa i_octets
is zero,  
.Fa *o_hash
shall be set to zero (0).
.Pp
If 
.Fa i_block
is not nil, the routine shall iterate up until 
.Fa i_octets 
is consumed and place the result in
.Fa *o_hash .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If any of the arguments are invalid, the return code shall be
.Er MJO_FAIL
and errno shall be set to
.Er EINVAL .
.Pp
Upon success, the return code shall be
.Er MJO_OK .
.Sh NOTES
.Pp
The hash algorithm used is based upon code from the sdbm library package
authored by Ozan S. Yigit
.Lk <http://www.cse.yorku.ca/~oz/hash.html>.
The software written by Ozan is released to the Public Domain.
