.\"  Copyright (c) 2020 Mark J. Olesen
.\"
.\"  CC BY 4.0
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 
.\"  International license.
.\"
.\"  You are free to:
.\"
.\"    Share --- copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
.\" 
.\"    Adapt --- remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose,
.\"              even commercially
.\"
.\"  Under the following terms:
.\"
.\"    Attribution --- You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
.\"                    to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You
.\"                    may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way
.\"                    that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
.\"
.\"   Full text of this license can be found in 
.\"   '${MJO_HOME}/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0'or visit 
.\"   'http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/' or send a letter 
.\"   to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
.\"
.\"  This file is part of mjo library
.\"
.Dd July 22, 2020
.Os
.Dt mstdlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm mjo_path_join
.Nd join the segments of a file into a composed path
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In mstdlib.h
.Ft void
.Fo mjo_path_join
.Fa "unsigned char **const o_path"
.Fa "unsigned char const * i_prefix"
.Fa "unsigned char const * i_name"
.Fa "unsigned char const * i_suffix"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn mjo_path_join
shall join the segments
.Fa i_prefix,
.Fa i_name,
and
.Fa i_suffix
into a composed path.
.Pp
Following is a description of the arguments.
.Bl -tag -width 5
.It Fa o_path
pointer to an
.So unsigned char * Sc
that shall be set to the address of a newly created memory
resource
.It Fa i_prefix
prefix segment
.It Fa i_name
name segment
.It Fa i_suffix
suffix segment
.El
.Pp
If 
.Fa o_path
is nil, mjo_abort shall be invoked with error code 
.Er EINVAL .
.Pp
.Fa *o_path
shall be set to the address of the newly created block of memory.
The size shall be large enough to contain the segments along with
any separators plus one for the termination octet.
.Pp 
If
.Fa i_prefix,
.Fa i_name,
and
.Fa i_suffix
are all either nil or empty, two (2) octets shall be allocated.
The first octet shall contain a period 
.Po mjo_r7_period Pc
and the second shall contain a termination octet.
.Pp
If 
.Fa i_prefix 
is not nil or empty, it shall be copied into
.Fa *o_path
followed by a directory separator 
.Po mjo_r7_dirsep_str Pc .
.Pp
If
.Fa i_name
is not nil or empty, it shall be concatenated to the end of
.Fa *o_path .
.Pp
If
.Fa i_suffix
is not nil or empty, a period 
.Po mjo_r7_period Pc
 shall be be concatenated to the end of
.Fa *o_path 
followed by
.Fa i_suffix .
.Sh NOTES
When the block of memory is no longer required, 
the caller shall invoke 
.Xr mjo_free 3
to release the resource.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mjo_malloc 3
.Xr mjo_free 3
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <mstdio.h>
#include <mstdlib.h>
#include <munistd.h>

int
  main()
{
  unsigned char *path;
  unsigned char *cwd;

  cwd = (unsigned char *)getcwd(0, (size_t)-1);

  mjo_path_join(&path, cwd, (unsigned char *)"foo", (unsigned char *)"txt");

  printf("path=%s\n", (char *)path);

  mjo_free((void **)&path);

  return 0;
}
.Ed
.Pp
OUTPUT
.Bd -literal -offset indent
path=/usr/home/devel/mjo/build/examples/foo.txt/
.Ed
.Pp
SOURCE
.Pp
.D1 Pa ${MJO_HOME}/examples/pathjoin.c
