.\"  Copyright (c) 2020 Mark J. Olesen
.\"
.\"  CC BY 4.0
.\"
.\"  This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 
.\"  International license.
.\"
.\"  You are free to:
.\"
.\"    Share --- copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
.\" 
.\"    Adapt --- remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose,
.\"              even commercially
.\"
.\"  Under the following terms:
.\"
.\"    Attribution --- You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
.\"                    to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You
.\"                    may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way
.\"                    that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
.\"
.\"   Full text of this license can be found in 
.\"   '${MJO_HOME}/licenses/CC-BY-SA-4.0'or visit 
.\"   'http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/' or send a letter 
.\"   to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.
.\"
.\"  This file is part of mjo library
.\"
.Dd July 22, 2020
.Os
.Dt mutf8
.Sh NAME
.Nm mjo_utf8_is_punctuation
.Nd determine if an UTF-8 is a punctuation mark
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In mutf8.h
.Ft int
.Fo mjo_utf8_is_punctuation
.Fa "int *const o_is_punctuation"
.Fa "struct mjo_utf8 const *const i_peek"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Determine if an UTF-8 character is a punctuation mark.
.Pp
Following is a description of the arguments.
.Bl -tag -width 5
.It Fa o_is_punctuation
pointer to an
.So int Sc
.Po boolean Pc
indicator of whether or not  
.Fa i_peek 
is a UTF-8 punctuation character
.It Fa i_peek Ta UTF-8 character to process
.El
.Pp
.Fa o_is_punctuation
is nil, it shall not be set.
.Pp
If
.Fa i_peek
is nil, invalid or empty, it shall not be evaluated.
.Pp
If 
.Fa i_peek Pc
is a punctuation mark, the routine shall set the boolean indicator
.Fa *o_is_punctuation
to true. Otherwise, the routine shall set the indicator to false.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If any of the arguments are invalid, the return code shall be
.Er MJO_FAIL
and errno shall be set to
.Er EINVAL .
Otherwise, the return code shall be
.Er MJO_OK
and errno will remain unchanged.
.Sh NOTES
For a list of punctuation symbols, please refer to the source file:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
.Pa ${MJO_HOME}/src/mpunct.c
